Welcome back, in this video, you'll build
your own transformer decoder model,
which is also known as the GPT-2.
Once you know attention, it's a fairly
simple model as you'll see, let's dive in.
>> In this video, you'll see the basic
structure of a transformer decoder.
I'll show you the definition
of a transformer and
how to implement the decoder and
the feed forward blocks.
So on the left, you can see a picture
of the transformer decoder.
As input, it gets a tokenized sentence,
a vector of integers as usual.
The sentence gets embedded
with word embeddings,
which you know quite well by now.
Then you add to these embeddings
the information about positions.
This information is nothing else than
learned vectors representing 1, 2,
3 and so on, up to some maximum
length that we'll put into the model.
So the embedding of the first word will
get added with the vector presenting one.
The embedding of the second word with
the vector representing two, and so on.
Now, this constitutes the inputs for
the first multi headed attention layer.
After the attention layer,
you have a feed-forward layer which
operates on each position independently.
After each attention and
feed-forward layer, you put a residual or
skip connection.
So just add the inputs of
that layer to its output and
then perform layer normalization.
The attention and
feed-forward layers are repeated N times.
The original model starts with N equals 6,
but
now transformers go up to 100 or
even more.
And then you have a final dense layer for
outputs and a softmax layer, and
that's it.
Now don't worry if you
didn't catch it all at once,
we'll go through the structure again and
with code to explain all the details.
Here on the right, you'll see
the core of the transformer model.
It has three layers at the beginning.
Then the shift writes just
introduces the start token,
which your model will use
to predict the next word.
You have the embedding,
which trains a word to vector embedding.
And positional encoding, which trains
the vectors for one, two and so
on as explained before.
If the input to the model was
a tensor of shape batch by length,
then after the embedding layer it
will be tensor of shape batch by
length by D model where D model
is the size of these embeddings.
And they usually go to 512, 1024 and
nowadays up to 10K or more.
After these early layers,
you'll get N decoder blocks.
And then a fully connected layer that's
output sensors of shape batch by length,
by vocab size.
And they log softmax for
cross entropy loss.
Now let's see how
the decoder block is built.
It starts with these sets of vectors
as an input sequence which are added to
the corresponding
positional coding vectors,
producing the so-called
positional input embedding.
After embedding, the input sequence passes
through a multi headed attention model.
And while this model processes each word,
each position in the input sequence,
the attention itself searches other
positions in the sequence to help identify
relationships.
Each of the words in
the sequence is weighted.
Then in each layer of attention,
there is a residual connection around it,
followed by a layer normalization
step to speed up the training and
significantly reduce
the overall processing time.
Then each word is passed
through a feed-forward layer.
That is,
embeddings are fed into a neural network.
And then you have a drop out at
the end as a form of regularization.
Next, a layer normalization
step is repeated N times.
Finally, the encoder
layer output is obtained.
After the attention mechanism and
the normalization step, some nonlinear
transformations are introduced by
including fully connected feed-forward
layers with simple but nonlinear ReLu
activation functions for each input.
And you have shared parameters for
efficiency.
The feed forward neural
network output vectors will
essentially replace the hidden
states of the original RNN encoder.
So let us recap what you
have seen in this video.
You saw the building blocks used to
implement a transformer decoder.
And you saw that it has three layers.
It also has a module to calculate
a log softmax which makes
use of the cross entropy loss.
And you also saw the decoder and
the feed forward blocks.
>> You have now build your
own first transformer.
Congratulations, wouldn't it
be good to see it in action?
Next, you'll use it to summarize articles.
Let's go to the next video.